title: Greenhouse by Muir
project-type: Food & Beverage
team: Wong Wei Ping, Tzu Peng, Shariani Ghazali, Lim Tiek Chia
location: Ampang
project-year: 2014-2016

description: Greenhouse by Muir is home to 4 different restaurants, one cafe and a fully equipped bakery kitchen - each bearing its own respective story and unique ambience.

The Kuroshio Market (Japanese market) and the Even Dough Cafe/Bakery constitutes the Ground Floor. The BRYCG (New Orleans cuisine) and MINU (Japanese cuisine) can be found on the First Floor. Followed by The Deck (Rooftop Lounge & Bar) placed strategically on the Second Floor. A multipurpose courtyard exists in front of the structure that serves as a parking lot during weekdays and a farmers' market on the weekends.

Inspired by the Japanese fish market, the Kuroshio Market stands out among others in contrast with the farmers' market; due to its expressive use of raw jute ropes and fishing nets (elements commonly found in fishing villages) influential in its theme of design. The market also consists of a bakery, a florist and a cafe.

middle description: The name MINU was taken from a renowned Japanese proverb - 'Minu ga hana'. The phrase translates as 'not being seen as a flower'. It's true meaning may take variations of sorts, however it could be narrowed down into an implication that states 'ignorance is bliss'. The Japanese believes that things are never as they seem; or rather what we imagine it to be. Therefore, to try and analyse what is would be an exercise in futility, as imagination will never compete with reality.

The idea behind BRYCG stems from reflecting on the culture found in New Orleans. The scene found on the under side of a bridge is elemental in capturing the dining ambience of New Orleans; made possible by placing a sequence of steel arches along the dining area. Hence the name 'BRYCG', an abbreviation of sorts at the word-play 'Bridge'.

The Deck, on the other hand, is a rooftop lounge and bar extended from the BRYCG. This alfresco dining area provides an open view to the surrounding of the site.